Question:
What are the two ways to interpret color in digital systems? Briefly explain each method.

Question:
Explain the concept of a pixel and its role in digital images. How are pixels used to represent color in RGB color systems?

Question:
Which of the following statements regarding color spaces is true?
a) RGB and HSV are the only color spaces used in digital systems.
b) Color spaces have no impact on how color is perceived by humans.
c) HSV separates brightness, hue, and saturation for encoding color information.
d) Color spaces are primarily used for file compression purposes.

Question:
Which of the following file formats is commonly used for high-quality practical compression of raster images?
a) TIFF
b) JPEG
c) GIF
d) PNG

Question:
What is a histogram in image processing?
a) A plot of color values against pixel intensity.
b) A visualization of the image's brightness distribution.
c) A lookup table used to map pixel values to equalized values.
d) A technique to increase the contrast of an image.

Question:
Which of the following processes involves converting an image from BGR to HSV color space before calculating the histogram?
a) Histogram equalization
b) Histogram back projection
c) 2D histogram plotting
d) None of the above

Question:
What is the purpose of a mask in image processing?
a) To convert an image from BGR to RGB color space.
b) To create a histogram of specific regions in an image.
c) To apply mathematical operations on an image.
d) To increase the contrast of an image.

Question:
Which OpenCV function is used to create a rectangle on an image?
a) cv2.rectangle()
b) cv2.circle()
c) cv2.bitwise_and()
d) cv2.calcHist()

Which of the following statements about NumPy arrays is correct?
a) NumPy arrays cannot be accessed using indices.
b) NumPy arrays and Python lists can only slice/filter out elements.
c) NumPy arrays do not support mathematical operations.
d) NumPy arrays can set data types and support mathematical operations.

Answer: d) NumPy arrays can set data types and support mathematical operations.

What is the purpose of a nested for loop in the context of stepping through an image?
a) To iterate through each row of the image
b) To iterate through each pixel in the image
c) To iterate through each RGB value in the image
d) To perform a specific operation on each pixel in the image

Which of the following is the correct syntax for a nested for loop in Python?
a) for data in range(starting index, ending index):
b) for row in range(0, height):
c) for y in range(0,h):
d) for x in range(0,w):

What is the purpose of the counting variable in the code?
a) To keep track of the total number of pixels in the image
b) To store the RGB values of each pixel in the image
c) To count the number of white pixels in the image
d) To determine the starting and ending indices of the for loops

What does the np.array_equal() function do in the code?
a) It compares two arrays and returns True if they are equal
b) It converts the RGB values of a pixel to grayscale
c) It calculates the total number of pixels in the image
d) It sets the black pixels to red in the image

What does the Threshold filter do in image processing?
a) It converts an RGB image to grayscale
b) It sets a fixed value as a dividing point between selected and deselected pixels
c) It counts the number of black and white pixels in the image
d) It performs a specific operation on each pixel in the image

What is the purpose of converting the image to grayscale before applying the Threshold filter?
a) To remove any color information and only focus on brightness values
b) To identify the locations of black pixels in the image
c) To calculate the total number of pixels in the image
d) To improve the resolution and quality of the image

What does the code imgTwo = np.concatenate((img, imgGrey), axis=1) do?
a) It combines the black and white pixels in the image
b) It displays the original image and the grayscale image side by side
c) It converts the image from RGB to BGR color space
d) It performs a specific operation on each pixel in the image

Which algorithm is used for edge detection in the provided code snippet?

a) Sobel Operator
b) Canny Edge Detector
c) Histogram Equalization
d) Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT)

Which interpolation method uses a 4x4 frame and 16 nearest neighbors to find the new pixel value?

a) Linear Interpolation
b) Bi-Linear Interpolation
c) BiCubic Interpolation
d) Nearest Neighbor Interpolation

What happens if the sum of the kernel used for convolution does not equal one?

a) The image becomes lighter
b) The image becomes darker
c) The image remains unchanged
d) The image becomes blurred

Question 2:
What is the purpose of applying an edge filter to an image?

a) To emphasize the differences in adjacent pixels
b) To de-emphasize the differences in adjacent pixels
c) To sharpen the image
d) To blur the image

What is the purpose of the blurring step in edge detecting pipelines?

a) To enhance the intensity of edges
b) To remove noise and less important edges
c) To smooth out small variations in color
d) To improve the overall image quality

Question 2:
What is the main difference between the Prewitt operator and the Sobel operator?

a) The Sobel operator uses a larger kernel size than the Prewitt operator.
b) The Prewitt operator computes the gradient in both the horizontal and vertical directions simultaneously.
c) The Sobel operator assigns different weights to the pixels in the central column of the kernel.
d) The Prewitt operator is more effective in detecting diagonal edges.

What is the purpose of the cv2.boundingRect() function in object detection?

a) To find the contours of objects in an image.
b) To calculate the intensity gradients of the image using the Sobel operator.
c) To draw bounding boxes around contours based on their coordinates.
d) To apply Gaussian smoothing to the input image and reduce noise.

Which step in the Canny edge detection process involves applying a Gaussian filter to the input image?
A) Smoothing
B) Finding intensity gradients
C) Non-maximum suppression
D) Double thresholding
E) Edge tracking by hysteresis

Question 2:
What is the purpose of a bounding box in computer vision?
A) To identify and locate objects of interest in an image or video
B) To segment objects or regions of interest in an image
C) To calculate the area and perimeter of objects in an image
D) To draw a rectangle around a contour to enclose the object or region of interest
E) To connect weak edges to strong edges in the Canny edge detection process

What does the 4:2:2 color subsampling in image compression leverage about the human eye?
A) The higher sensitivity of the human eye to brightness than to color
B) The higher sensitivity of the human eye to color than to brightness
C) The ability of the human eye to perceive fine details in both brightness and color
D) The ability of the human eye to distinguish a wide range of color shades
E) The ability of the human eye to adapt to changes in lighting conditions

What does the hierarchy array returned by the cv2.findContours() function represent in object detection?
A) The coordinates of the top-left corner of the bounding box
B) The gradient magnitude and direction at each pixel of the image
C) The hierarchical relationships between contours, such as parent-child relationships
D) The threshold values used for classifying pixels as strong, weak, or non-edges

Question 2:
What is the purpose of the bounding box in object detection?
A) To locate and isolate specific objects within an image
B) To calculate the area and perimeter of objects in an image
C) To draw contours around objects of interest
D) To represent the boundaries of an object or region of interest with a rectangle

What is the purpose of erosion and dilation in morphological operations?
A) Erosion removes the outermost layer of pixels in an image, while dilation adds pixels to the outermost layer of an object.
B) Erosion adds pixels to the outermost layer of an object, while dilation removes the outermost layer of pixels in an image.
C) Erosion and dilation both remove small objects or thin lines from an image.
D) Erosion and dilation both fill small gaps in an object or connect nearby objects.

Which of the following is a commonly used corner detection algorithm in computer vision?
A) Histogram equalization
B) Gaussian blur
C) Canny edge detection
D) Harris Detector

Which algorithm uses Haar-like features and machine learning techniques to identify patterns in images or videos?
A) Haar Cascade Object Detection
B) Adaboost
C) Decision Trees
D) Viola-Jones Face Detection

Question 2:
What is the main purpose of Adaboost in the Viola-Jones face detection algorithm?
A) To select the most discriminative Haar-like feature classifiers
B) To calculate the sum of pixels under the white and black rectangles
C) To refine the detection and reduce false positives
D) To draw bounding boxes around detected faces

Question 1:
What is the primary advantage of the Haar Cascade Object Detection algorithm?
A) It is computationally efficient and can run in real-time.
B) It uses deep learning techniques to improve accuracy.
C) It can detect faces with high accuracy in any lighting condition.
D) It does not require training a classifier.

Question 2:
How does the Viola-Jones face detection algorithm refine the detection and reduce false positives?
A) By using a sliding window of different sizes.
B) By applying a pre-trained classifier to identify regions likely to contain a face.
C) By progressively filtering out regions unlikely to contain a face using cascaded classifiers.
D) By selecting the most discriminative Haar-like feature classifiers using Adaboost.
